it was seen as a test case rights
organizations filed a civil suit against
the Dutch State saying supplying Israel
with spear parts for F35 fighter jets
makes the Netherlands complicit in
possible war crimes in Gaza the judge at
a lower court had dismissed the case
saying the court couldn't interfere in
government policy decisions the appeal
court had a different view exper from
the experts of the UN have found that
there is an incredible number of
Civilian casualties thousands of
children have been killed and so the
violence is not proportional that's why
there is a clear risk of violations of
the laws of war since 2019 the
Netherlands has housed the European
distribution center for F35 spare parts
from where it also supplies Israel in
2022 it exported spear Parts worth $2.4
million to the country with the
escalation of the war in Gaza this
number is now predicted to be much
higher it's dependent on the F35 without
any any doubt so it's it's um it's not
just a small bit in this whole story it
is really a main element and it will it
will definitely if for now it will
definitely affect uh Israeli
Warfare Israel owns dozens of these
us-made fighter planes it is expected
they will now depend on the US to
provide the necessary spare parts while
this verdict will not directly impact
the war on Gaza it could be seen as a
precedent for other organizations in
Europe to file similar cases against
their governments other Nos and other
countries are already preparing similar
cases and we've been in contact with
them but even more than that I hope it's
a turning point for how Western
governments look at their role and
responsibility and realize that also
before a judge they are co-responsible
for what's happening in Gaza for the
first time a court has ordered the
country to stop sending weapons to
Israel the verdict is seen as a severe
blow to the Dutch government who had
argued that stopping its contribution to
the F-35 program would jeopardize its
ties with the US and Israel and would
have a Severus economic impact in his
verdict the judged argued that political
and economic interests can't be more
important than the protection of
Civilian lives during a war the Dutch
state will now take the case to the
Supreme Court but that doesn't mean can
still export spear F35 parts to Israel
the court has given the state one week
to formally execute the verdict step
fast in alzer
De make sure to subscribe to our channel
to get the latest news from Al
jazer